Hello, freak bitches.
It's almost just like, if you embrace it,
then there's something just like everything's dead and miserable
for a period of time.
And then it blooms and then you get to experience like this rebirth and then
it, you know, flourishes and then it dies again.
That there's other perspective on that actually being, I don't know,
like if you work with it,
it's sort of like a woman who's on birth control has no idea that there's any
point to, uh, you know, a cycle of energy over the course of the month.
Right. She sort of thinks is that that's annoying,
but there's a way you can wrap your mind around it where you work.
What do do you mean? Like, okay. So like if you're earth control,
you have no menstrual cycle. Right? Right. So you're just like a,
you're like a man you're like a flat line the whole month,
but there's actually something really empowering.
If you understand how to work with your energy shifts,
cuz naturally like a woman's natural men.
I know this is really what you wanna be talking about. I do.
I don't, I mean, it's alien to me, so I do wanna, I hear it. So.
Like I figured this out I'm 39. I was on birth control for 12 years.
So I never knew what it was,
what it meant to have like a menstrual cycle until very recently.
Cause then I had two kids breastfeeding. So couple decades into my life.
I'm just figuring this out.
But you have like totally different kinds of energy over the course of the month
and you have to know how to work with at that. So there's a kind of energy that,
you know,
you wanna go out and socialize or you wanna stay in and work or you wanna sleep
more or less. And if you don't know how to ride that,
then you could be sort of taken off guard by it.
But if you know how to work with it,
it's so much more powerful than just having this like artificial hijacking of
your endocrine system.
That's interesting.
So the there's like some sort of analogy to be drawn between the cycles of
nature and the cycles of your body month to month it's yeah. Huh?
I would've never considered that. I never even thought about it, but I,
I have thought about birth control before,
about how crazy it is that you give a woman a hormone that convinces her body
that she's perpetually pregnant and that a giant percentage of women are on it
for convenience. Yes. Or even from other medical issues like skin issues. Right?
Exactly.
Exactly. Yeah. I mean, when I I've always been a feminist, right.
So even when I was younger and very much asleep,
I identified as a feminist and I thought was one of those people who thought
that birth control was like a female entitlement.
Like how dare you not make this free and why widely available.
But as I begin to research more about it and more about how it's in many ways,
like the ultimate, you know, not to sound too inflammatory,
but the ultimate tool for oppression of, you know, the modern woman.
Now I find it incredible that we, you know,
that we're still taking it because it seems like a good idea, right?
Who wants to deal with your annoying menstrual cycle? Who wants to get pregnant?
Who wants to have endometriosis or polycystic ovary, you know,
who wants to have acne or like hair growing in weird places,
but it's the magic pill illusion. There's no free lunch.
There's never gonna be something that just fixes it for you.
And you just waltz off into the sunset.
There's always a cost and the cost is so much more vast,
like ranging from literally death all the way to just like subtle alterations in
your personality and like the fear moons you secrete, you know?
And there, there was just a million woman study, um,
in Scandinavia that showed about the vast, uh,
increase in antidepressant prescribing for teenagers who are prescribed birth
control. So it's the beginning of sort of,
it's like a gateway drug sometimes for psych meds too.
Yeah. I heard, I had a friend who one of his good friends is done.
Oter died from some complications with taking birth control pills and smoking
cigarettes. Yes.
Pulmonary embolism, probably that.
Smoking cigarettes,
apparently along with the birth control pills are extremely dangerous,
but so many do it.
Of course. And you don't even have to have that additional risk factor,
you know, cuz birth control,
whether it's the pill or something called maneuvering by itself has that,
you know,
I'm contacted often by parents of girls who have died from pulmonary
embolism. Who've now become like activists in this realm and it's because of.
Birth control pills. Yeah.
Yeah, no, it's like a known mechanism and it's a known risk factor.
Like I think that's not being suppressed or hidden.
It's just that we are sort of to dismiss the risks as we
attach to the promise. So we sort of like collude in ignoring that potential.
You know.
That's so interesting because most people,
when they think about the birth control pill,
they think about it as something that liberated women,
because exactly they can control whether or not they got pregnant and they were
allowed for the first time to have careers and do whatever they wanted to
because they didn't have to worry about being trapped. That's right.
Right. That's.
The story. But that's the biological free lunch thing, right? There's exactly.
Isn't there also a lot of issues. Chris Ryan was on here, Dr. Chris Ryan,
the author of sex at Dawn. He was on here and he was talking about how women,
like, if you smell the clothes of other men,
you can literally tell the men that you are attracted to.
You would be biologically compatible with those men.
And that when they did these same studies on women who were on the birth control
pill, they couldn't smell the.
Difference. That's right. It's called the t-shirt study. Yeah. How.
Does that work? Could you explain that?
Well, essentially
the premise of pharmaceutical medicine is that you can just pull like one little
thread of the spiderweb and leave the rest of it intact.
Like everything else is gonna be fine. We're only working on this one area.
So with birth control, for example, the idea is we're just, you know,
taking over the management of your sex hormones,
but the rest of your body is gonna be totally unaffected. And of course,
as we learn more about how all of these systems are totally and
inextricably interconnected, we have a better understanding of how, you know,
when you, um, interfere with sex hormones,
you also potentially have other effects, including, um, raising things called,
um, binding globulins, including inflammatory response.
You're depleting a number of nutrients and we're having, you know,
it's possible that we,
we haven't even begun to look through the keyhole of the effects on brain and
you know, sort of neuro peptides.
And these is where we don't have any idea what hormonal secretion is about.
Like we just have to defer to the probability that our bodies are more complex
than we've right. Like begun to understand.
So your biology is meant to guide you. It's meant to empower you.
And it's meant to, you know, create a sense of vitality.
If you can inhabit your body and be in a truce with it.
That's part of the problem with the mindset of birth control is I'm just gonna,
you know, take this over, I'm gonna manage this. Right. And so who knows,
maybe even it's a top down like mindset thing that begins to sort of divorce you
from your sensibilities.
We don't really know is the point that's going, that's gonna be a common answer.
I think, yeah, I have to give you, is that we, we don't really know, but it,
it does make sense that your, you know,
the subtle nature of your biology that involves, you know,
sort of guiding your human interactions and particularly sex related
interactions is gonna be derailed. I mean, low libido,
one of ironically the most common, um, disclosed side effects of birth control.
So you're, you're taking it so that you can have unprotected sex.
We don't feel like having sex ultimately anyway.
So it's not even really that well thought out. I think by most of us.
It's very bizarre, but what other alternatives are there? I mean,
if you're a woman and you want to have control of whether or not you get
pregnant. Yeah.
There's not a whole lot of options other than weird ones like IUDs, which seem.
Real weird. Yeah. I mean, there's,
some of my patients use what's called a copper. I U D you know,
it's funny cuz I had one put in and two and a half.
It costs like $700 and two and a half weeks later I had it taken out cuz I just
felt weird about having like a pharmaceutical metal in my <laugh> my body was,
felt like a tracking device. Could you feel it in there? No, no, no you can't.
It's not really. You just were freaking out.
It's just like psychologically felt weird. Oh. But um,
I use something called a Daisy,
which is like this highly calibrated thermometer. I, you track your, you know,
cuz you have six fertil days a month, this isn't, you know,
like some major sacrifice you have to make in order to learn how your cycle
works and then you get the benefits of being in your hormonal,
Amelia, you know, like it's not, um, it's not that complicated. Mm.
But it there's a learning curve, you know,
requires like learning how to be a woman and also sharing the onus because
you know, with all of these side effects we've been talking about, you know,
there was like a male birth control study that was just terminated because of
how many side effects like the men didn't wanna deal with. You know?
So there's such a sociocultural double standard around this,
but if we're talking about six days a month,
like how do we collaborate and try and figure something out, you know,
that doesn't involve a risk of death perhaps.
So this Daisy thing just monitors your temperature and tells you exactly what's.
Going on. Yeah. I mean it's a little more sophisticated than that.
It actually has the efficacy like above 99% efficacy. If you listen to it,
that's part of the, you know, right. Room for human error,
but it basically just tells you like have sex now if you wanna conceive or if
you don't then don't right. So it's a little, like a little light it's green,
red or yellow.
How many women are on birth control if you had to guess nationwide?
You know, I would, that's a good question.
I dunno. The stat off hand upward of like 10 million, I would say.
That's a staggering number of people taking some sort of a substance that
alters the, the very nature of who they are.
Exactly. Yeah. I mean,
my interest in it really came from looking at the psychiatric side effects
because I'm very interested in medications that have potential, you know,
gateway effects or around psychiatric meds that we aren't informing
women of before. You know, they start the prescription. So, you know,
whether it's like acid blocking medications, you know, or antibiotics, um,
you know, birth control, vaccines,
these things have known psycho biological effects.
If you don't know that, then you'll never connect the dots.
And then you end up in the polypharmacy realm where you're taking multiple meds,
right. Without ever knowing where the dominoes like started to fall.